How do we deal with bigrams
with zero probability?
The simplest idea is
called add-one smoothing.
Let's look at a picture that gives us
the intuition of smoothing in general,
from Dan Klein.
So suppose in our training data
we saw denied the allegations,
denied the reports, denied the claims,
denied the request.
And so we've computed probabilities.
There were seven total things
following denied the and
we can get our probabilities of
everything of each of these things.
But we would like to say, well,
maybe denied the report might occur.
Sorry, denied the report
was in the training data.
Denied the effort might occur,
denied the outcome might occur.
So we'd like to steal some
probability mass and save it for
things we might not see later.
So this is our training data and
this is the maximum likelihood counts.
So these things occurred after
denied the and these never occurred.
We'd like to steal a little probability
mass from each of these words and
put that probability mass onto
all other possible words, or
some set of words so
that the zeros go away.
And the simplest way of doing this
is called add-one estimation,
or Laplace smoothing, and
the idea is very simple.
We pretend we saw each word one
more time than we actually did.
We just add one to all the counts.
So if our maximum likelihood
estimate is the count of
the bigram divided by
the count of the unigram,
our add-one estimate is
the count of the bigram plus
1 over the count of the unigram plus V.
We have to add V here in the denominator
because we're adding 1 to
every word that follows word i-1.
So our denominator has increased not
just by the total count of times that
something happened to word i-1 wasn't just
all the previous things that followed it,
but each one of those got incremented
by 1 and there were V of them,
so we have to add V to the denominator.
This is the add-1 estimator and
probability estimator.
I keep using the term
maximum likelihood estimate,
and let's just remind you what that means.
The maximum likelihood estimate
of some parameter of some model
from a training set is the one
that maximizes the likelihood
of the training set given the model.
So we have some training set and
we're going to maximum likelihood
estimator that lets us learn a model
from a training set is the one that
makes that training set most likely.
What do we mean by this?
Suppose the word bagel occurs 400
times in a corpus of a million words.
And I ask what's the probability that
a random word from some other text will be
bagel?
Well, the maximum
likelihood estimator from
our corpus is 400 over 1 million,
or 0.004.
Now this could be a bad estimate for
that other corpus.
Who knows whether the other corpus
bagel occurs 400 times per million or
some other probability?
But this estimate is the one that makes
it most likely that bagel will occur 400
times in a million word corpus, which is
what it did occur in our training corpus.
So we're maximizing the likelihood
of our training data.
So an add-1 smoothing,
and any kind of smoothing,
is a non-maximum likelihood estimator
because we're changing the counts
from what they occurred in our training
data to hope to generalize better.
So if we go back to our
Berkeley Restaurant project and
we add 1 to all of our counts,
here's our Laplace smoothed bigram counts.
Now all those 0s that we
had have become 1s, and
everything else gets 1 added to it.
So now we can compute the bigram
probabilities from those counts.
And just using the Laplace add-1
smoothing equation that we saw earlier,
and now we've got all of our Laplace
that are add-1 smoothed bigrams.
So we have again the probability
of to given want is 0.26, and
now all of those 0s have turned into other
things, 0.00042, 0.00026, and so on.
Now we can also take those
probabilities and reconstitute
the counts as if we had seen
things the number of times that we
would have to see to get those
add-1 probabilities naturally.
So we take our probabilities and
we re-estimate the original counts
as if they were the numbers that would
have given us these probabilities.
And we ask, what do those
reconstituted counts look like?
How much has our add-1 smoothing
changed our probabilities?
So here's reconstituted counts.
So we have i is followed
by want 527 times,
or chinese is followed by food 8.2 times.
These are reconstituted counts, and
let's compare them to the original counts.
So here on the top we have
the original counts, and
here we have our reconstituted counts.
And I want you to notice
that there is a huge change.
So in our original account,
to followed want 608 times.
In our smoothed counts,
to follows want only 238 times.
So it's almost a third smaller,
three times smaller.
Or chinese food occurs 82 times
in our original counts and
only 8.2 in our reconstituted counts.
So the add-1 smoothing has made
massive changes to our counts.
And it's sometimes changing a factor
of 10, the original counts,
in order to steal that probability
mass to give to all those
massive numbers of 0s that had
to be assigned probabilities.
In other words, add-1 estimation
is a very blunt instrument.
It makes very big changes in the counts
in order to get these probability mass to
assign to this massive number of zeros.
And so in practice we don't actually
use add-1 smoothing for N-grams.
We'll have better methods.
We do use add-1 smoothing for other kinds
of natural language processing models.
So add-1 smoothing, for example,
is used in text classification or
in similar kinds of domains where
the number of zeros isn't so enormous.